# Coding-sequence-detection-using-chaos-game-representation-and-machine-learning
 Prediction of protein-coding /protein-non coding regions in DNA sequences using machine learning by representation of the DNA sequence in chaos game representation (CGR) 
# Abstract
  Understanding the genomic sequence, prediction of the protein-coding regions and regulatory sites are the major goal after determining the DNA sequences. However, it is a crucial step, it is computationally expensive and requests prior knowledge about the species coding sequence, specifically in the higher and complex organism such as mammalian species genome. Since the 1980s, steps toward automated gene structure prediction have been continuously improved, but they are still not error free. The most common errors are miss classification of protein-coding nucleotide sequences, non-coding nucleotide sequences, through false positive and false negative region identifications.
  Prediction of protein-coding regions in DNA sequences has two main approaches: search by content and search by a signal. The first approach (search by content) predicts the coding regions directly by taking the advantages of the statistical difference between the coding sequences and the non-coding sequences, such as variations of the codon usage, GC content, nucleotide composition, base occurrence periodicity, and hexamer frequency. Meanwhile, the second approach (search by signal) predicts the coding regions indirectly by finding some related signals that are associated with gene expression. The second approach can be considered as a machine learning classification problem is given a window on a genomic sequence, determining whether the window contains the signal of interest based on some associated features of the signal. This is a supervised learning problem, where the classifier is trained on a set of given coding and non-coding sequences.
  In order to gain accurate classification results, the inputs to a feature vector should be able to represent the original data. The representation of the DNA sequence in chaos game representation (CGR) is able to give graphical and numerical representations of the genomic sequences, by the unique properties of CGR, subsequences of a gene or genome exhibit the main characteristics of the whole sequence, thus it is useful in the detection of special genomic features. 
CGR method has involved many studies of bioinformatics and this because of the ability to extract as many useful features as possible from CGR and several studies showed that those extracted features play important roles in the genomic study. In the previous study, they used CGR as feature vector input to classify splice sites of the NN269 data set (NN269 dataset has been extracted from 269 human genes as a benchmark splice site dataset). Here, we implement multiple linear and non-linear machine learning classification methods that can predict the protein-coding and non-coding region(intron) through CGR of mammalian related genes, this study will give a recommendation of which classification method that gives accurate classification between coding and non-coding sequences for the future CGR mammalian related genomic studies.
